I'm proud to release version 2.4.0 of the Roundup issue
tracker.  This release is a bugfix and feature release, so
make sure to read `docs/upgrading.txt
<https://www.roundup-tracker.org/docs/upgrading.html>`_ to
bring your tracker up to date.

The 79 changes, as usual, include some new features and many
bug fixes.

Version 2.4.0 will be the last release to support Python
2. The next minor release, planned for mid 2025, will occur
5 years after Roundup started supporting Python 3.

Note that you should run ``roundup-admin ... migrate`` to
update the database schema version. Do this before you use
the web, command-line or mail interface and before any users
access the tracker.

You can install it with::

   pip install roundup

(preferably in a virtual environment). To download it, use::

   pip download roundup

then unpack and test/install from the tarball.

Among the notable improvements in 2.4.0 from the 2.3.0
release are:

* three CVE's have been fixed. One requires changes to your
  tracker's home directory. The other two are fixed by
  installing 2.4.0.  See
  https://www.roundup-tracker.org/docs/security.html for
  details and instructions on how to fix these in 2.4.0 and
  earlier releases.

* new classhelper component thanks to a team of students
  from CS682 at U-Mass Boston. This fixes many issues with
  the old classhelper. It is implemented as a web-component
  and needs REST interface access. It will fall back to the
  classic classhelper if REST is not available or if the
  browser does not support web-components.

* fix Windows Python installation using pip. It used to go
  into an infinite loop during install or download. Also fix
  installation of shared files (templates) so roundup-admin
  can find them.

* using ``@current_user`` as a value in a search URL for a
  user property will use the current logged in user. Now you
  can share searches like: "My issues" as "my" will become
  the current logged in user.

* login failures to the REST/XML-RPC interfaces are now rate
  limited to limit password guessing attacks.

* utf8mb4 is the default charset for MySQL. This requires
  migrating your database using the mysql client. You can
  choose to keep the older character set in config.ini.

* PostgreSQL services defined in pg_service.conf can be
  used.  PostgreSQL schemas are supported to eliminate the
  need for the roundup user to have database
  creation/deletion privileges.

* fix out of memory issue when importing larger trackers
  into PostgreSQL.

* multiple roundup-admin improvements: display protected
  properties (like creation date), better formatting of
  output, command history. Also on windows, pyreadline3 is
  supported to provide an editable interactive command line.

* an experimental wsgi performance improvement in 2.3.0 is
  now now the default and is opt-out.

* new template functions: utils.readfile and
  utils.expandfile. Javascript that is included in the
  Python core will be moved to external files and be able to
  have values from Roundup substituted in the Javascript.

* allow content-type of a template to be set from inside the
  template.  This allows returning json or xml from a
  template without a .json or .xml extention.

* fix import/export on windows to use Unix style line
  endings fixing export/import on Windows and making exports
  portable across platforms.

* various other Windows platform fixes including test suite
  fixes.

* sqlite version 1 and StructuredText support removed.

The file CHANGES.txt has a detailed list of feature
additions and bug fixes for each release. The most recent
changes from there are at the end of this announcement. Also
see the information in doc/upgrading.txt.

If you find bugs, please report them to issues AT
roundup-tracker.org or create an account at
https://issues.roundup-tracker.org and open a new ticket. If
you have patches to fix the issues they can be attached to
the email or uploaded to the tracker.

Upgrading
=========

If you're upgrading from an older version of Roundup you
*must* follow all the "Software Upgrade" guidelines given in
the doc/upgrading.txt documentation.

Note that you should run ``roundup-admin ... migrate`` for
all your trackers to update the database schema version. Do
this before you use the web, command-line or mail interface
and before any users access the tracker.

Roundup requires Python 2 newer than version 2.7.12 or Python 3
newer than or equal to version 3.6 for correct operation. (Python
3.4 or 3.5 may work, but are not tested.) Note that Roundup 2.4.0
will be the last release to support Python 2. You should deploy
new trackers with Python 3 and plan on upgrading older trackers
from Python 2 to Python 3. See the upgrade guide.

To give Roundup a try, just download (directions above),
unpack and run::

    python demo.py

then open the url printed by the demo app.

Release info and download page:

     https://pypi.org/project/roundup/

Source and documentation is available at the website:

     https://www.roundup-tracker.org/

Mailing lists - the place to ask questions:

     https://sourceforge.net/p/roundup/mailman/


About Roundup
=============

Roundup is a simple-to-use and install issue-tracking system
with command-line, web and e-mail interfaces. It is based on
the winning design from Ka-Ping Yee in the Software
Carpentry "Track" design competition.

Roundup manages a number of issues (with flexible properties
such as "description", "priority", and so on) and provides
the ability to:

(a) submit new issues,
(b) find and edit existing issues, and
(c) discuss issues with other participants.

The system facilitates communication among the participants
by managing discussions and notifying interested parties
when issues are edited. One of the major design goals for
Roundup that it be simple to get going. Roundup is therefore
usable "out of the box" with any Python 3.6+
installation. It doesn't even need to be "installed" to be
operational, though an install script is provided.

It comes with five basic issue tracker templates

* a classic bug/feature tracker
* a more extensive devel tracker for bug/features etc.
* a responsive version of the devel tracker
* a jinja2 version of the devel template (work in progress)
* a minimal skeleton

and supports four database back-ends (anydbm, sqlite, mysql
and postgresql).

Recent Changes
==============

From 2.3.0 to 2.4.0

Fixed:

- CVE-2024-39124 - The classhelpers (_generic.help.html) are
  vulnerable to an XSS attack. A specially crafted URL that used
  that endpoint would result in running a script embedded in the
  URL. (Found/reported by Alec Romano (4rdr), fix/tests John
  Rouillard)
- CVE-2024-39125 - If the Referer header is set to a script tag,
  it will be executed when the error in the Referer header is
  reported. (Found/reported by Alec Romano (4rdr), fix/tests John
  Rouillard)
- CVE-2024-39126 - PDF, XML and SVG files attached to an issue can contain
  embedded JavaScript. This JavaScript was executed when the file was
  accessed. PDF files are now downloaded and not displayed in the
  browser. A content security policy is added for all download files
  which prevents code execution in SVG files.  (Found/reported by Alec
  Romano (4rdr), fix/tests John Rouillard)
- issue2551282 - MySQL utf8mb4 issues and
  issue2551115 - Use utf8mb4 as a default for MySQL instead of utf8
  The default database type and collations have been set to:
  utf8mb4, utf8mb4_unicode_ci and utf8mb4_0900_bin. They are (sadly)
  configurable from config.ini. Require directions on upgrading the
  MySQL db have been documented in upgrading.txt.
- issue2551063 - Rest/Xmlrpc interfaces needs failed login protection.
  Failed API login rate limiting with expiring lockout added. (John
  Rouillard)
- issue2551184 - improve i18n handling. Patch to test to make sure it
  uses the test tracker's locale files and not other locale
  files. (Marcus Priesch)
- issue2551283 - fail if version 2.4.9 of markdown2 is used, it broke
  [issue1](issue1) style links. Support markdown2 2.4.8 and earlier
  and 2.4.10 with its new schema filtering method. (John Rouillard)
- multiple flake8 fixes (John Rouillard)
- rename loop variable in 'for sendto in sendto:' (John Rouillard)
- issue2551193 - Fix roundup for removal of cgi and cgitb standard
  python modules (and FieldStorage/MiniFieldStorage). Replaced imports
  from cgi to use roundup.anypy.cgi\_ which will load the system cgi
  unless it is missing. Then it will load roundup.anypy.vendored.cgi
  and make \*FieldStorage symbols available. Roundup uses its own
  cgitb.py and not the system cgitb.py. It looks like it's the
  precursor to the system cgitb.py. (John Rouillard)
- issue2551278 - datetime.datetime.utcnow deprecation. Replace
  calls with equivalent that produces timezone aware dates rather than
  naive dates. (John Rouillard)
- when using "roundup-admin display" indent the listing only if
  headers or protected fields are requested. This makes the output
  look like it did previously to 2.3.0 if the new features aren't
  used.  Roundup-admin output was never meant to be machine parsed, but
  don't break it unless required. (John Rouillard)
- issue2551290 - pip install roundup Hangs on Windows 10
  The install under windows goes into an infinite loop using pip or
  source install. (John Rouillard)
- Document use of pyreadline3 to allow roundup-admin to have CLI editing
  on windows. (John Rouillard)
- issue2551293 - remove schema_hook from Tracker instance. Looks like
  it was an obsolete hook used for testing. Never documented and not
  accessible from schema.py.
- Fix roundup-admin security command. Lowercase its optional
  argument. Roles are indexed by lower case role name. So 'security
  User' and 'security user' should generate the same output. (John
  Rouillard from issue on mailing list by Chuck Cunningham)
- make roundup-server exit more quickly on ^C. This seems to be
  limited to windows. (John Rouillard)
- Fix error handling so failure during import of a non-user item
  doesn't cause a second traceback. (Found by Norbert Schlemmer, fix
  John Rouillard)
- Handle out of memory error when importing large trackers in
  PostgreSQL. (Found by Norbert Schlemmer, extensive testing by
  Norbert, fix John Rouillard)
- use unittest.mock rather than mock for
  test/test_hyperdbvals.py. (found by Ralf Schlatterbeck. Fix John
  Rouillard)
- disable proxy with wget in roundup_healthcheck. (Norbert Schlemmer
  Noschvie on github.com)
- support dicttoxml2.py for Roundup running on 3.7 and
  newer. dicttoxml uses a type alias: collection.Iterator that is
  dropped in Python 3.10. (found by Norbert Schlemmer, fix John
  Rouillard)
- fix duplicate html id 'password' in user.item.html in all templates except
  jinja2. (John Rouillard)
- fix unclosed file when saving index in indexer_dbm.py. (John Rouillard)
- fix task index in devel tracker so it doesn't cause a crash if all
  fields are selected. (John Rouillard)
- fix windows install. When using pip share directory is installed in
  a directory tree under the lib directory. Fix it so that Lib/share
  is used to install the share tree. The lets Roundup find tracker
  templates and translation files. (Found by Simon Eigeldinger, fix
  John Rouillard)
- fix roundup-demo, interactive mode would nuke an existing tracker.
  (Found Tonu Mikk, fix John Rouillard)
- fix detection/reporting when using a SQLite3 library without FTS5
  support. Install docs updated to state that FTS5 support is required
  when using SQLite for back end. (Found Tonu Mikk, fix John
  Rouillard)
- issue2551320: user.help-search.html doesn't respect
  properties. Setting url parameter properties when using the
  classhelp for users now shows the requested properties. (Found by
  Patel Malav and Nikunj Thakkar of the UMass-Boston CS682 Spring
  2024 class; fix John Rouillard)
- use ast.eval_literal() rather than eval() to turn CSV exported
  string values into Python object/values.
- use template's guess at Content-Type in headers only if Content-Type
  is not already set. This allows a template to set its own content
  type. For example: _generic.translate can set content type (via
  request.client.additional_headers) to application/json and return
  json from the template. This json could access the 1i18n functions
  for a javascript helper. (John Rouillard)
- when template processing raises an exception the line number is
  sometimes missing. This causes cgitb to raise a second exception
  which clobbers the info about the template issue. As a stop-gap set
  the line number to -1 so the original traceback can be seen. This
  could be a bug in ZopeTAL. (John Rouillard)
- issue2551328 - REST results show next link if number of results is a
  multiple of page size. There should be no next link. (Found by Patel
  Malav and Bharath Kanama of the UMass-Boston CS682 Spring 2024
  class; fix John Rouillard)
- issue2551264 - REST X-Total-Count header and @total_size count
  incorrect when paginated - correct values are now returned.
  (John Rouillard)
- issue2551331 - Fix repeat first/last methods. (John Rouillard)
- Fix import/export on windows. Use unix line terminating characters.
  (John Rouillard)
- Fix anydbm session/otks clear() method on windows when backed by
  dumbdbm. Also make anydbm detect the initialized database when
  using dumbdbm. (John Rouillard)
- Use of '-' directory in static_files config option under windows
  Python fixed. (John Rouillard)
- issue2551334 - number of test bugs that prevented test suite from
  running under Windows Python are fixed. WIP. (John Rouillard)
- issue2551302 - Remove support for sqlite version 1 from
  back_sqlite.py. We have been using sqlite3 for over a decade. (John
  Rouillard)
- issue2551285 - Remove StructuredText support. reStructuredText is
  still supported. (John Rouillard)
- Use roundup-demo -p option to set listening port. Was ignored
  before. (John Rouillard)
- issue2551346 - Classic tracker's statusauditor raises error if
  detectors/config.ini missing
  STATUSAUDITOR_CHATTING_REQUIRES_TWO_USERS.  The statusauditor.py for
  jinja2 and classic templates has been changed to assume that this
  option is off when the setting is missing from
  detectors/config.ini. Other templates do not implement this option.
  (John Rouillard)
- issue2551350 - Python changes for 3.12 with roundup 2.3.0. Fixes for
  cgitb.py crash due to pydoc.html.header() signature change. (Patch
  by Andrew (kragacles), applied John Rouillard)
- issue2551350 - Python changes for 3.12 with roundup 2.3.0. Fixes for
  mailer.py crash due to change in starttls signature change. (Patch
  by Andrew (kragacles), modified and applied John Rouillard)
- make classhelper link open in a new window by setting
  target="_blank". This prevents overwriting of current page with the
  classhelper if javascript is disabled. (John Rouillard)
- issue2551341 - if @columns missing from an index url, the
  group headers colspan property = 0. Add "or 100" in
  stanza's so headers span all rows (up to 100).
- fix roundup-server response requiring a 301 redirect. Did
  not set content length leading to hang/error. (John
  Rouillard)
- report basename of filename when template file is invalid
  rather than reporting a TypeError. (John Rouillard)
- Make Last-Modified header use GMT not -0000 timezone. Fix error
  reported by redbot testing. (John Rouillard)
- Send Vary: Accept-Encoding on any file that could be compressed
  even if the file is not encoded/compressed. Found by Redbot
  testing. (John Rouillard)
- make If-None-Match work for static file (@@file) case. Found by
  Redbot testing (John Rouillard)
- Send vary: accept-encoding for if-modified-since conditional
  requests where the file is not modified. (John Rouillard)
- Update JWT example in rest.py to use replacement for
  datetime.datetime.utcnow(). (John Rouillard)
- issue2551219 - document requirements of PEM file when using
  roundup-server in SSL/TLS mode. Report better error messages
  when PEM file is missing certificate or private key. (John
  Rouillard)
- Cleanup tracker index generation by roundup-server. Send
  correct Content-Length headers so HTTP/1.1 connections don't
  hang. (John Rouillard)
- Fix delay when using csv export actions. The CSV file is written
  incrementally, so we can't determine the Content-Length. When using
  HTTP/1.1, this causes a delay while the browser waits for a timeout.
  Forcing the connection to close after the CSV file is written
  removes the delay. (John Rouillard)

Features:

- issue2551323 - Remove XHTML support. Disabled option to set
  html_version to xhtml. Running roundup commands with html_version
  set to xhtml will result in an "Invalid value for HTML_VERSION:
  'xhtml'" error. (John Rouillard)
- issue2551103 - add pragma 'display_protected' to roundup-admin. If
  true, print protected attributes like id, activity, actor...
  when using display or specification subcommands. (John Rouillard)
- add -P pragma=value command line option to roundup-admin. Allows
  setting pragmas when using non-interactive mode. (John Rouillard)
- issue685275 - add pragma show_retired to control display of retired
  items when using list/table. Add pragma display_header to print
  headers for display command. Header displays designator and
  retired/active status. (John Rouillard)
- issue2551299 - support config.ini rdbms option 'service'. Allow use
  of a PostgreSQL connection service file (pg_service.conf) for
  configuring database on a per-tracker basis. Also replaces use of
  PGSERVICE env variable for single instance trackers. (From ML
  question by ivanov. John Rouillard)
- issue2550852 - support for specifying a PostgreSQL schema to use for
  the Roundup database. (Patch by Stuart McGraw; slight modifications,
  tests, docs: John Rouillard).
- issue2551274: add configurable logging for REST API when something
  fails, we now log status code and error message.
  (Ralf Schlatterbeck)
- issue2551317 - add some Jinja2 examples to customizing.txt
  document. (John Rouillard)
- multiple scripts/... updates - Python3, linting, enhancements:
  weekly-report,schema-dump.py, roundup-reminder, copy-user.py,
  dump_dbm_sessions_db.py, contributors.py (John Rouillard)
- roundup/msgfile.py can now be called as 'python msgfmt.py de.po de.mo'
  or 'python msgfmt.py -o de.mo de.po' to compile a translation file if
  GNU msgfmt is missing. (John Rouillard)
- save roundup-admin history between sessions. Load
  ~/.roundup_admin_rlrc file to set history-size persistently. Add
  pragma history_length to override for a session. (John Rouillard)
- the roundup-admin history command now dumps the journal entries
  in a more human readable format. Use the raw option to get the older
  machine parsible output. (John Rouillard)
- Multiple JWT secrets are supported to allow key rotation. See
  an updated config.ini for details. (John Rouillard)
- issue2551212 - wsgi performance improvement feature added in 2.2.0
  is active by default. Can be turned off if needed. See upgrading.txt
  for info. (John Rouillard)
- issue2551270 - Better templating support for JavaScript. Add
  utils.readfile(file, optional=False) and utils.expandfile(file,
  token_dict=None, optional=False). Allows reading an external file
  (e.g. JavaScript) and inserting it using tal:contents or equivalent
  jinja function. expandfile allows setting a dictionary and tokens in
  the file of the form "%(token_name)s" will be replaced in the file
  with the values from the dict. (John Rouillard)
- add @group to rest interface collection queries. Useful when using
  optgroup in select elements. (John Rouillard)
- roundup-demo can set the hostname in the URL using the -H
  parameter. So you can start a demo tracker that is available from
  your network using 'roundup-demo ... -B hostname -H hostname'. (John
  Rouillard)
- issue2551347 - make _generic.help.html work without property
  settings. THis applies to classic or minimal trackers. It allows use
  of classhelp without the property seting for informtion only
  (e.g. description of what a priority or status means) without being
  able to select the property in the classhelper.  Good for adding help
  for Link properties. (John Rouilllard)
- issue1525113 - notation to filter by logged-in user. Use
  @current_user with properties that are a Link to the 'user' class to
  match the currently logged in user. Allows sharing of queries like
  "Issues I created" or "Issues I am assigned to" by removing the
  hard coded user id number and replacing it with the current user's
  id. Tracker templates updated to use it. (John Rouillard from a
  patch by Jon C. Thomason)
- Add a /rest/data/user/roles REST endpoint. (John Rouillard)
- issue2551353 - Add roundup-classhelper for 2.4.0
  release. Integrate new classhelper web component to wrap
  existing classhelper link. This fixes a number of
  outstanding bugs against the current classhelper using
  current web features. (Patel Malav, Nikunj Thakkar,
  Bharath Kanama with integration by John Rouillard)
- disable spellcheck on all password fields to try to prevent
  browser from exposing passwords to external servers. (John
  Rouillard)
